Angelo Archuletta: Hello.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Angelo Archuletta: Good. How are you, I'm sorry I'm late. I
I
Angelo Archuletta: I'm still on hold with
Angelo Archuletta: The right heart health, with a 15 minute but
Angelo Archuletta: I found your
Angelo Archuletta: In old email with your meeting ID.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Okay. Have a reply back. They don't want us
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Doing that anymore. So, um, we'll just start since you're here. But if you can make sure you check in afterwards.
Angelo Archuletta: Okay, will stay on hold with them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Angelo Archuletta: Where should I hang up with them now that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will just stay on hold and then once they check you in then.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're just a second. Okay.
Angelo Archuletta: Okay, yeah. I mean, I've been on hold, since since for 50 years you know i you know
Angelo Archuletta: I didn't want to miss.
Angelo Archuletta: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mac machine that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How have you been
Angelo Archuletta: Good. Um, well, I also sent you an email.
Angelo Archuletta: Right about Bible for, you know, asking for your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, I just replied back to that I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For my meeting room number right
Angelo Archuletta: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I replied back to the same I will wait management does not want us providing the meeting room number two patients. And so they check into VC.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we checked in. So wow so this isn't the email. They give them the meeting. Remember, um, so we'll just we'll keep rockin and rollin and they once they have you check in, you check in. OK.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: OK, cool. So
Angelo Archuletta: Um,
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. I
Angelo Archuletta: I've been having like difficulties with my family, you know, I'm like, trying to build a relationship with my son and you know get past you know everything, you know, and just struggling a lot, you know, it's been like pretty emotional lately, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know, I've been
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going on that.
Angelo Archuletta: Well,
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. I
Angelo Archuletta: Like my son and
Angelo Archuletta: My niece, they're building like
Angelo Archuletta: Garden boxes for the backyard and I had originally started you know it was my idea, you know, originally whenever they didn't like the way that I was doing so he had me stop you know and they, you know, they took over the project, you know, but like
Angelo Archuletta: He went and they got a new
Angelo Archuletta: Circular saw and stuff like that today. And you know, I wanted to be out there to like supervise them to make sure they don't have their fingers offering you know and like also to participate, you know. And like I was pulled away, you know, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Angelo Archuletta: MY NIECE'S I DON'T KNOW. Dave
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. They just got a real core attitude towards me. You know, like I'm not welcome, you know, and I'm trying to like overcome that, you know, I'm trying to participate. I'm trying to be, you know, like either uncle, you know, be a dad and being uncle, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: And, you know, I'm just
Angelo Archuletta: I'm like excluded. You know, I'm not welcome to participate, you know, and it just like
Angelo Archuletta: It hurts my feelings, you know, because it reminds me back of like
Angelo Archuletta: When I was a kid, you know, and like my dad used to get so frustrated with, you know, we'd be working on something and like, you know, want to just get out of here. I don't even want your help.
Angelo Archuletta: Just leave, you know, and it was just, you were dismissed and it was just like, you know, and then he threw at you, you know, and I know that's what you want. You know that's what you try and try and do things have fast, you know, so that I'll tell you to leave, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's like not
Angelo Archuletta: trying my best, you know, and I'm, you know, and it just like it's
Angelo Archuletta: It's just a reminder, you know, it brings back you know that trauma, you know, and it's just like, Why is this still going on, you know, why am I not, you know, like I've waited so long to be the one you know that
Angelo Archuletta: leads the project, you know, it's finally my turn to be like the adults and to show them how things are done, how to measure how to cut how to, you know, and it's like, no, I can't have that. You know, I'm not welcome to that.
Angelo Archuletta: You know,
Angelo Archuletta: And I just like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It.
Angelo Archuletta: It crushes me know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It sounds crushing give me some give me some concepts, so I can have more understanding of how you know that you're not welcome you set your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Life know that you're not welcomed with her.
Angelo Archuletta: Well, my mom kept telling me.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, come back into, you know, like
Angelo Archuletta: Because they were working on on cutting the dog's hair and like my mom kept trying to pull me in. And I was like, hang on, you know, I want to watch them to make sure they don't hurt them, you know, let me just watch
Angelo Archuletta: While they you know when they cut the boards or whatever. And she's like, No, no, no. And then like she finally like pulls me aside and says, you know what, I didn't want to hurt your feelings but Michaela doesn't want you out there you know
Angelo Archuletta: And I'm like, Well, I don't care if she wants me out there. I'm going to make sure they're safe. You know, like
Angelo Archuletta: I'm their uncle. I'm, you know, and my moms like starts yelling and screaming and telling me not to go
Angelo Archuletta: You know, and I'm like, Mom, like there's, it's not a big deal. I'm just, I'm not going to interfere. I'm just going to be, you know, and I tried to ration. You know, talk to, you know, and she really fought me
Angelo Archuletta: I stood in my way and told me not to go outside.
Angelo Archuletta: I could not go
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it was pretty clear. I wasn't welcome.
Angelo Archuletta: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where's that coming from the past incidents with my camera on. How old is she,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's
Angelo Archuletta: A year younger than my son so 16 but
Angelo Archuletta: I mean,
Angelo Archuletta: Since day one, you know her dad and her you know I
Angelo Archuletta: You know, I've always been the junkie piece of crap you know
Angelo Archuletta: I'm not worth it. You know, like, it's always been that way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, and my sister has
Angelo Archuletta: Pretty good luck with that. And you know mean and has raised them to believe that you know that you know to stay away from me that I'm dangerous.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, and I mean I've never been anything
Angelo Archuletta: You know, I've never ever been violent. I've never been in any way, you know, sexual or anything like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you know
Angelo Archuletta: For this, you know, and I've never
Angelo Archuletta: Displayed in it. But the most harmful behavior was my drug addiction, but I never brought that around the girls.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, and I never worked.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, but because of that.
Angelo Archuletta: I was dangerous, you know, and like, and I don't know I guess on her. Her dad side like I guess she had an uncle that that had like died, you know, was under the same circumstances, drug abuse and stuff like that that had died from his drug abuse. He had gotten clean or whatever and
Angelo Archuletta: He was feeling for like two years or something and then the one time he relapsed he died, you know, and so, you know, there's that you know don't get don't get too close to D him because he could end up just, you know, they pretty much put at it, you know. Yeah.
Angelo Archuletta: As well.
You know and i mean
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this, this restoration process has been so difficult for you as far as acceptance from your family members because they're still judging from your past transgressions, is this kind of like the culture of your family. Is it difficult for them as others transgressions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Their Angela.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah, you just came back he froze for us.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For a minute there. Yeah, I said this, this process of restoration has been challenging for you because, despite the years of sobriety under your belt.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're still being held or judged based on your past addiction. And I'm wondering if this is just kind of have your family, the culture of your family. Is it is it like this in all situations are they typically kind of like the family that hold on to what you've done in the past and
less forgiving. Oh.
Angelo Archuletta: Very much so.
Angelo Archuletta: And like
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. I
Angelo Archuletta: Especially with me on. I don't know. Like, it seems like with with me, especially you know they hold on to stuff and you know like I'm
Angelo Archuletta: Like I'm like the black sheep, for some reason, you know, and I hate to sound like the, you know, everybody always picks on me, you know, but like it, it seems, for me, it seems like I live to a different set of standards and everybody else.
Angelo Archuletta: I'm held to a
Angelo Archuletta: Completely different set of rules and standards.
Angelo Archuletta: than everybody else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let me on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our session to watch a video.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That talks about these situations because this family dynamic doesn't doesn't help you to get past
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The black or white kiki and the feeling of isolation and disconnect you know in trauma, it's important to have those social supports and that connection within the community as part of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The healing process. But it becomes difficult if you can't get best support within your own internal network. So I hear the struggle and I just want it to run
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When I saw this video part of you. And I wanted to share it with you just so that we can have one discuss and hear your thoughts on this video. What this experience has been like for you so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is there anyone in your family that you feel is like that that safe space that doesn't hold judgment against you.
Angelo Archuletta: Sometimes my mom, you know, but I mean, it always backfires
Angelo Archuletta: You know,
Inconsistent
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah.
Angelo Archuletta: Like I'll confide
Angelo Archuletta: In her
Angelo Archuletta: In like she'll like so back at you know like when we're in a fighter and every you know she'll like roller eyes and like, here we go again. You know what. Next you're gonna kill yourself right you know and like you know like make fun of me about, you know, and it's just like
Angelo Archuletta: You know I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your family's background culturally
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Angelo Archuletta: Like we were raised Hispanic more
Angelo Archuletta: But I mean, we're always raised pretty middle class, you know, upper middle class, I'd say. I mean, we, I mean, I grew up.
Angelo Archuletta: In nice homes, you know, but like I didn't know they was
Angelo Archuletta: We were never like we were always raised to be very proper, you know, we couldn't make messes or anything.
Angelo Archuletta: Like that.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, I mean,
Angelo Archuletta: For instance, you know, one of the first houses. I remember, you know, was we had an indoor swimming pool, you know, which was, you know, I mean even still, it's pretty crazy.
Angelo Archuletta: But, I mean, we never used
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: I think we got in it one time, you know, because it was it was more for show, you know, and it was more of like my parents like status, you know, but like they could never afford to heat it up.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, to spend time in it and like we were always like working around it. You know, like working on the, you know, on the landscaping and stuff like that around it, you know, maintaining nap. But like we'd never like really enjoyed the actual the actual pool, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So okay, so what was your family's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What were their jobs.
Angelo Archuletta: They were business owners, they owned a couple accounting firms.
Angelo Archuletta: Sending a halt.
Angelo Archuletta: To nonprofit charity bingo halls and stuff like that so
And there's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm sorry, they were produced successful
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, you know, their business.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The reason why I ask is because socio economic status and culture plays a huge course and our perception of things and how we view reality. And so when I hear you know the Hispanic culture, you know, what are typically their views when it comes to addiction versus mental health.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um,
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. My dad always thought it was a bunch of BS.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I mean, he thought that
Angelo Archuletta: Therapy was, you know, silly and like it was just, you know, that, that the world was getting to sense and I mean this was back in the 90s.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know when you know like
Angelo Archuletta: Things were starting to
Angelo Archuletta: come to light.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know where people were
Angelo Archuletta: You know, were
Angelo Archuletta: victims were, you know, encouraged to speak up and have a voice. You know, like I remember in elementary school like my dad, you know, one of the counselors pulled me aside because she'd seen
Angelo Archuletta: bruises on my legs, you know, and like, you know, I didn't say anything about it, you know, because I need better than anything. And I remember my dad just be, you know, like all the people are bunch of pussies, you know, everything is
Angelo Archuletta: Used to them and blah, blah, blah.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, and I
Angelo Archuletta: Got a lot of that kind of stuck on stage, you know, like I believe you know like
Angelo Archuletta: This is what normal. You know, like, this is what boys go through, you know, this is when toughens in
This
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Process. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And like he's just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He's teaching me to be a man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's been my understanding to when I look cultural implications, is that addiction and mental health, you know, they're not really looked as an illness, it's looked at as a scapegoat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, a way of trying to get attention. And so even when you said that your mama throwback. Let me guess. Now you want to kill yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, it's that lack of empathy because it's coming from a place of believing that your addiction and also your mental health.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is just attention seeking behavior and not realizing that you know there's a chemical imbalance, there's a dependency.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're working and trying to get your emotional brain and your rational brain on the same alignment and it's a constant daily struggle. So do that to ensure that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you're not in a safe space that welcomes you to get in line and tone with that and then social economic status. I'm thinking that heightens and even more because now we're talking about status.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're talking about how you're perceived. So those are two things against you. Not working in your favor. As far as empathy goes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because the social economic status. I could imagine to get to that level of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: After speech. It didn't include much compassion towards others and empathy, it was more about discipline, which is probably as to why you were physically abuse so often was all about discipline.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Structure family rules.
Angelo Archuletta: And humility. I mean, nobody would you say like like don't everything like
Angelo Archuletta: You know, you deserve anything or anything like that was very clear, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's that cultural aspect coming in that's not from the social economic status speaking. That's that cultural aspect talking like a, you know, we come from humble beginnings, we work so hard to get here. And this is our success. It's not yours.
Angelo Archuletta: You're not old anything
Angelo Archuletta: You know,
Angelo Archuletta: I mean you but I mean you
Angelo Archuletta: You're capable to earn the same you know
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah, but I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reducing yeah
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what aspects. Do you feel you contribute
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To the family dynamic
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. I struggle.
Angelo Archuletta: I struggle to find, like, you know, and that's why like it means so much to me to get out there and help
Angelo Archuletta: And to participate.
Angelo Archuletta: For me, my, you know, I
Angelo Archuletta: Know like I was just gonna say like my my yard or whatever, you know, I think, you know, I take pride in
Angelo Archuletta: You know, then like I've got you know I'm always taking taking pride in my yard.
Angelo Archuletta: You know and like
Angelo Archuletta: They're out there working on something with
Angelo Archuletta: It, you know, and I can just pay you know and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know,
Angelo Archuletta: That's like my contribution to the family, you know, it's like
Angelo Archuletta: Getting the yard nice you know and like they've taken that over, you know. And so now, like my contribution is
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know, I just, I'm not contributing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: more value than the landscape.
Angelo Archuletta: I really don't participate a lot in the family like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, it almost felt they don't allow you a space to participate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And with that, coming from that. Okay, the cultural implications that we're considering the social economic status. I'm thinking, once you're able to get a hold of what your value is. And that's been related
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then they can see back right because it's all about production. What do you bring to the table.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. It's difficult to say what you bring to the table when you don't have the confidence to even explain that because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have a confidence in the landscaping. You know, I saw that when you said to your mom. I don't care. She wants from there. I'm going to be there because this is where I shine. This is where I'm able to show what I produce, but it was still shut down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is it realistic or practical. Have you ever envisioned.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Living somewhere else. What would that look like for you.
Angelo Archuletta: Um,
Angelo Archuletta: Actually, that's
Angelo Archuletta: Become one of, like, that was kind of
Angelo Archuletta: My, my first reaction to was, you know, like I think it's time for me to like this is obviously not a healthy environment for me so I mean really and truly. The only thing I can do is move on from here and now that like I'm getting my
Angelo Archuletta: Disability and I'm getting some day to
Angelo Archuletta: Be a pretty
Angelo Archuletta: Pretty nice chunk of change. So yeah, that's probably going to be my first priority is getting my own space, you know, and
Angelo Archuletta: surrounding myself with
Angelo Archuletta: With people that can
Angelo Archuletta: You know, build me up. Instead, instead of just tear me down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because to try to get the things that we're talking about, and that I know it's not just me that mentioned it's you want you want it for yourself. But you're not in an emotionally safe environment that allows you to have insight about what you bring to the, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's so much more than the landscaping, you know, the being such interesting perspective.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the way you break down like on the body and the symptoms. I'm like, jeez, like that is not my specialty on where the therapy, but the way you can break down the scientific structure of the brain and all this stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I mean sometimes you talk about the April, and it's almost like it's just you two guys like just speaking medically and no one else is in the room. I see you come alive when you're able to talk about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So there's intellect there there's intelligence, as well as the skill set of being able to garden.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I don't know the last time you heard what you're good at. But I want you to to hear what I noticed
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right now listing this place.
I don't know.
Angelo Archuletta: It's hard to hear.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, like a compliment.
Angelo Archuletta: I'm just like,
Angelo Archuletta: I've been like, so like
Angelo Archuletta: Just at my wit's end for so long and like just just blatant like you know like everybody could see you know like the nobody sees it, you know, and it's just
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know what I'm doing wrong.
Angelo Archuletta: I keep like welcoming same abuse like so it's like I start wondering like, what is it I'm doing to
Angelo Archuletta: To welcome that and like to, to encourage that, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell you this research that supports that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: survivors of trauma, often they go back to the same structure and the same environment because what they're internalized is that eventually they can return to that.
Angelo Archuletta: Place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And be victorious.
Angelo Archuletta: They can change the law.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's like those movies you watch with those books you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Read back into several different endings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It starts off the same but then towards the end, you can create an ending. That's what trauma or physical
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Journey. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what trauma does to you. It gives you this AWS perspective that even if the environment is not emotionally safe, even if it's not nurturing, I will return to
Angelo Archuletta: It because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One, it's no it's no place for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Into
Angelo Archuletta: These pillars in
Angelo Archuletta: I I create these pillars within that
Situation, I
Angelo Archuletta: I create these pillars of familiar trauma.
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah, with the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Situation that aren't really there. Yeah. Because like you said, the key word is it's familiar
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's familiar to trauma victims have this compulsion to repeat they repeat against the anxiety. You know, you may see some compulsions that you have the source of your trauma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm not saying this to justify that keep doing it. But to let you know that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not just this person that keeps wanting it. It's your trauma that motivates you to this compulsion to repeat and to this hope and this expectation that even a painful situation, you'll be able to be a master over it and you'll find a new resolution.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I want to encourage you to find a resolution to find alternative safe space because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This environment is
Angelo Archuletta: I just, I don't, I don't know where to
Angelo Archuletta: Where to go from here, like with with my son and stuff like, you know, do I give them this the cold shoulder. Do I, you know, beg for his attention. Do I just
Angelo Archuletta: I mean, how do I interact with. I mean, when you get snubbed like that and like rejected.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's
Angelo Archuletta: What's the proper way to
Angelo Archuletta: To react.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Boundaries, so you don't have why because avoidance doesn't solve any issues. So it's one having this awareness that okay, Angela.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have a tendency to repeat a compulsion to repeat, even though this is a trigger for you. This is an unsafe environment. It's a familiar place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So Lana happy awareness that this this environment as I create emotional safety for me. How can I create an emotional safe environment within this home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it's not like you get this information and you move tomorrow. But in the interim until you find a new place altogether that emotional safety looks like establishing your boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And being in places that welcome and not allowing people to talk down to you because like you said, I get that sense to your mom waivers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's what makes it so complex. She waves in her role to be nurturing so go from nurturing to condemning you don't know when it's been a shift. And then when she makes that shift we go back to the self loading the condemnation and not feeling worthy and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But when her nurturing hat is on. It's very protecting because for her to keep trying to, you know, persuade you to come inside.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then tell you later. Hey, listen, some. The reason why I said is a killer just doesn't want to be around to me that shows that she was really trying to protect you from rejection
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah, and I mean even afterwards, you know, because I had taken off I went to go run to Maryland, like, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: She was, you know, like very apologize, you know, she was like, I got into it with Andrew and I told him you know it's not right what he's doing, you know that I'm trying to, you know, she had a talk with him. You know, you know, really trying to
Angelo Archuletta: Work with him. And it's messed up that you're giving me so much resistance, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: And I mean, she's between
Angelo Archuletta: I mean, she's kind of stuck in the middle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know as the
Angelo Archuletta: coarser as the
I mean,
Angelo Archuletta: She's stuck between me and Minecraft. The rest of the family.
You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Look like if you move her as the mediator.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you were able to establish the boundaries with your son, so he knows the rules and regulations of how how to communicate with my father.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would that looks like for you, how comfortable it with enforcing those
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know when I try when I've tried in the past, it just, it usually ends badly for me where I'm ultimately
Angelo Archuletta: You know, like whatever I said doesn't go and I'm yelled at, you know, and I'm kind of put down and put in my place and my son sitting there kind of, you know, like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: See you place your mom. Yeah.
Angelo Archuletta: Or my sister or, you know, like, because I'll try and talk to them, you know, and they're like,
Angelo Archuletta: You know what, you got to understand, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: Andrews point of view, you know, and so, you know, and I get their point of view, like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I don't know if you
Angelo Archuletta: Weeks ago I you know told him that he had to come with me. You know, I picked him up from school and he just completely refuse to to participate that and that's usually what he does, you know,
The only
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. The only time he wants to
Angelo Archuletta: To come around as if he's going to get something out of it, you know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Opportunities to create one on one conversations because it sounds like when you're communicating with them. There's an audience. Your mom stereo systems there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And these are you know your mom has immune system and her natural role, you already know that your sister is not a supporter. So putting yourself in unsafe environments where you want to exert your boundaries. There's so much opposition. You're putting yourself right at the battle line.
Angelo Archuletta: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I opportunities to enforce these boundaries with your son in one on one settings.
Angelo Archuletta: Probably for, like, once I get my own place.
Angelo Archuletta: I mean, because like right now. I mean, I
Angelo Archuletta: They made it clear that I have no room to speak like
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know why I mean
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. They're just always undermining me and it's
Angelo Archuletta: Like
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know how to
Angelo Archuletta: Get away from that, you know, like how to bypass that. You know, so I end up just, you know, just be like, all right, you know what, whatever. Do whatever you're going to do and I obviously my opinion doesn't matter. You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your time is over time that your opinion doesn't matter. And then over time, it creates this expectation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That again that compulsion to repeat. I am going to attempt to discipline, my son in audience. I know that's unhealthy. Are you know the outcome is going to be that they say, I'm in the wrong and hence further
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Determine from the role of responsibility and being a father to my son.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then I get to go back into this place of self deprecation and unworthiness
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it's a pattern that repeats.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Unintentionally
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I hate to see it, say it, but it's almost like you're seeking it if you try to parent with an audience that audience in particular.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'm wondering how responsive with your son be if you notice something saying, Hey, let's go for a walk outside or hey, you talk to your appointment instead of trying to voice it in front of them. What would that look like what would be responsive.
Angelo Archuletta: Well, what do you usually does is
Angelo Archuletta: Like what I've done that before in the past like, you know, like, take it like you'll play the game of, you know, we'll ask grandma and she said it was okay. And I'm like, Well, I'm saying it's not okay. I don't
Angelo Archuletta: Like him coming into my room or whatever and like
Angelo Archuletta: Caught him several times in there.
Angelo Archuletta: Getting into my pot.
Angelo Archuletta: You know he's at that age where he's
Angelo Archuletta: Getting into my shit and I've told it, you know, and I've caught him right hand it
Angelo Archuletta: You know,
Angelo Archuletta: So there's a good reason that you know and I tell you know, look, we don't want you up there, you know, in the room.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Unless you take
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A shower. You know, because you have
Angelo Archuletta: To share the show, you know, and one of us has to be up there, whatever, you know, and he continuously does not fall you know I catch them up there, Tom. Hey, what did I tell you about coming up here, what we're not up Will Graham said it's okay. When I say it's not okay you know like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A key to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The key to your room.
Angelo Archuletta: We don't have a lock on it. And that was my suggestion was that like, we start putting a lock on, you know, because there's times where we're not home.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, and
Angelo Archuletta: And I want to start, you know, locking the door.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But would it be an issue if you took the initiative and you install the lock on the door.
Angelo Archuletta: As long as i think that i mean it would be okay as long as you know I cleared it with me.
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know. I really
Angelo Archuletta: I would think she'd be fine with it, but
Angelo Archuletta: She surprised me with quite a bit before you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the other alternative is moving, moving the lead altogether.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. He already knows where it is and you can access it.
Angelo Archuletta: Well,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He just he
Angelo Archuletta: He goes through my stuff. Any. It doesn't even have to be the leader, the potter and ever like, he'll, you know, you'll see a pocket knife that he likes you know and stick it in his pocket, you know, or I just, I hate him going through all my stuff forever.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's an invasion of privacy. So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My things was practical to me is getting a lock on the door.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if that's something that you feel that you can show the production of this town better create safety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And privacy in the home.
Angelo Archuletta: I mean, and I'm kind of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like I
Angelo Archuletta: Gotta be honest, you know I carry my own baggage about the issue or whatever.
Angelo Archuletta: Because you know when I became a thief, you know, like I was, you know, I mean,
Angelo Archuletta: I, I'd never lived the down you know and like my mom is just like she kind of just like you know it's not a big deal. You know, so I'm carrying my own baggage about it. My own you know
Angelo Archuletta: And I need to get over that and just get more
Angelo Archuletta: Practical and just stop to be hit, you know, stop it in its put a lock on the door stop the game, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: And move on and I
Angelo Archuletta: Probably the best way to to go about most of these
Angelo Archuletta: Things is stopped taking things. So personally, I mean get practical and and move on.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, even with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your guilt from your past addiction to keep you from applying very practical solution.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To your problems and you're taking on what your family has done. And I'm wondering if you're taking it on or if it's vice versa, your family takes it on, they see that you're still stuff appreciating yourself and still wallowing in this bill of your past addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so it makes you question on the context of your sobriety. If you're still holding on so much guilt and then they, in turn,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Heat this shame on you because they haven't seen any other side of you. They haven't seen the Confident Angelo that sober, that's no longer taking on the responsibility of his past addictions. You've moved on.
Angelo Archuletta: Right.
Angelo Archuletta: And I think that's a lot of
Angelo Archuletta: Like what I talked about in past sections, you know, still feeling like a junkie. You know, like
Angelo Archuletta: I still feel like
Angelo Archuletta: You know, like I haven't obtained any recovery like I've
Angelo Archuletta: Obtained sobriety. You've been my
Angelo Archuletta: Recovery.
Angelo Archuletta: You know, I feel like like this like being here really kind of stunted my growth, you know, but I mean if I want to get real with myself. I mean, I could grow anywhere where I met you know
Angelo Archuletta: It's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not me know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you're in an unhealthy and emotionally unsafe environment, you'll grow, but it'll be cut down
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The minute you get to interpret your default. So you always be playing catch up.
Angelo Archuletta: That is kind of, I mean a really good analogy of how itself. You know, when I get a little bit of growth and it gets chopped right down
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your growth doesn't even look like a flower blooming. It's like a week.
Angelo Archuletta: It's like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's pull this week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's like, no, that's my growth that's a flower, that's about to build. Nope, that's a week so unhealthy environments does not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Support
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: healthy growth and that compulsion to stay where you are. You know what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You just did it right now, just to find that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, I should be able to grow even in this environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm gonna challenge that right there. That's why it's so difficult.
Angelo Archuletta: I'm looking at my, my mom's dog we cut cut his hair today and it's all chopped up and like talking about growth and being shot, you know,
Angelo Archuletta: It's funny.
Angelo Archuletta: Cuz he's got patches all over
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Representation of what your growth will be
Santa toxic environment.
Angelo Archuletta: Right.
Angelo Archuletta: Like, that's how I feel.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, just like
Angelo Archuletta: Google patches out of my like just
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah, I don't know.
Angelo Archuletta: I'm just, I, I know it's time for me to move on, you know, and I'm just, I think I'm a little stir crazy a little emotional
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know and i mean
Angelo Archuletta: It's good to have somebody else to bounce idea, you know, and kind of get out of my own head.
You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do this. Again, we're still on that every two weeks. Right.
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, whatever happened today ever on check you in
Angelo Archuletta: Look at this still
Angelo Archuletta: 10 to 15 minutes it's telling me.
Angelo Archuletta: I don't know, but there is a message. There's two messages there so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, we'll try to check in, so that
Angelo Archuletta: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Claim that you were waiting and so exactly what you told me that she just came from a meeting room. Did you have my number from previously so
Now you're checking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In a professional group for group, but I want you to think about what we talked about emotional safety and think about what that will look like for you what an emotionally safe environment would look like for you.
Angelo Archuletta: Um,
Angelo Archuletta: I was going to see as six. I'm not going to see Dr. Gabriel I'm due for a refill on my, on my script.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you showed up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you changing your medication or
Angelo Archuletta: I if it's okay. I'd like to stay right where I'm at.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, I'll let her know that you showed up and you want the medication as is that she has any further questions she could just follow up with you via email.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What. Okay. Okay.
Angelo Archuletta: Well, thank you, Jessica. I really enjoyed this quarter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hey, thanks for showing up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right. Have a good night YouTube